README.md, before:

# EasyFirebaseReact

This library is being created in order to facilitate repetitive functions in firebase projects, **easy-firebase-react** makes it easier for us to manage users, firestore database, and upload files to storage.
**This library is not finished but you can test it for now :)**

### Content list

- Installation
- Project Settings
- Usage
- Manage Errros
- Firebase Authentication
- Firebase Firestore
- Firebase Storage

## Installation

`npm install easy-firebase-react firebase`
only install firebase if you dont have.

## Configurations

create a config file like this.. and only need set your credentials.

```javascript
import EasyFirebase from "easy-firebase-react"; //to initialize your app firebase
import { Auth, Firestore, Storage } from "easy-firebase-react/functions"; //classes with functions

//your credentials app
const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "",
  authDomain: "",
  projectId: "",
  storageBucket: "",
  messagingSenderId: "",
  appId: "",
};

//pass your credentials to EasyFirebase and this return your app instance
const { app } = EasyFirebase(firebaseConfig);

//create new instance of classes
const auth = new Auth(app);
const firestore = new Firestore(app);
const storage = new Storage(app);

//export your instances
export { auth, firestore, storage };
```

## Usage

1. import the instances created in your configuration

`import { auth, firestore, storage } from 'YOUR_CONFIG_FILE'`

2. use the functions avalibles with async/await...

```javascript
const newDoc = await firestore.addDoc("products", {
  name: "tv smart 3",
  price: 500,
});
//Manage Errors
if (newDoc.error) {
  console.log(`error adding doc: ${newDoc.message}`);
} else {
  console.log("doc added: ", newDoc);
}
```

# Manage Erros

- all functions of this library return firebase errors or custom errors
- for better information you can log the response to the console

```javascript
const res = await auth.loginGithub();

//manage errors
if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
console.log(res);
```

# Firebase Authentication

## Create Account With Email

1. Remenber activate the email auth options in your firebase console

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onSubmit = async () => {
  const res = await auth.createAccount(
    "email@email.com",
    "pass1234",
    "NameUser" //name user is optional
  );
  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

## Login With Email Account

1. Remenber activate the email auth options in your firebase console

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onSubmit = async () => {
  const res = await auth.loginAccount("email@email.com", "pass1234");
  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

## Login With Google Provider

1. Remenber activate the google auth options in your firebase console

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onClickButton = async () => {
  const res = await auth.loginGoogle();

  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

## Login With Github Provider

1. Remenber activate the github auth options in your firebase console and set config needs in github. Read more in [firebase docs auth with github](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/github-auth)

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onClickButton = async () => {
  const res = await auth.loginGithub();

  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

# Manage User Authenticated

you can manage the current user auth with a custom hook from EasyFirebase lib

## Example

```javascript
import { useAuth } from 'easy-firebase-react/hooks';

const HomeView = () => {

  const user = useAuth();

  return(
    <div>
      {
        user ? (<p>{user.displayName}</p>) : (<p>user not auth<p/>)
      }
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Close Session

to close a session you can use the next function

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

auth.closeSession();
```

# Firebase Firestore

## Add new document

- you can create a new document with the 'addDoc' function
- the id is automatically generated but if you need a custom id you can pass it as the third parameter

```javascript
const newDoc = await firestore.addDoc("products", {
  name: "tv smart 3",
  price: 500,
  active: true,
});
//Manage Errors
if (newDoc.error) {
  console.log(`error adding doc: ${newDoc.message}`);
} else {
  console.log("doc added: ", newDoc);
}
```

## Update or Replace existend document

- You can update a document with the 'updateDoc' function
- by default it does a data merge, but you can replace the entire document by passing the value of false in the fourth parameter

```javascript
const update = await firestore.updateDoc("products", "a7BTAeEnYbbXi2vCjoql", {
  price: 600,
});
console.log(update);
```

## Delete existend document

- you can delete a document passing it the collection and the id of the document

```javascript
const docDelete = await firestore.deleteDoc("products", "89btftioa87SQjEIswjP");
console.log(docDelete);
```

## Add data in array

- adds data to an array, it can be anything, a string, object, array, etc.
- if the array does not exist yet it will create it and add the data

```javascript
const addA = await firestore.addInArray(
  "products", //collection
  "8RvHtf437D4clakqBtNO", //idDoc
  "categories", //array field
  "category1" // data to add
);
console.log(addA);
```

## Add data in array

- adds data to an array, it can be anything, a string, object, array, etc.
- if the array does not exist yet it will create it and add the data

```javascript
const delA = await firestore.deleteInArray(
  "products", //collection
  "8RvHtf437D4clakqBtNO", //docId
  "categories", //Array field
  { //All data of document to delete
    description: "desc of category",
    name: "category one",
  }
);
console.log(addA);
```

Commit message:

now you can pass a name app

README.md, after:

# EasyFirebaseReact

This library is being created in order to facilitate repetitive functions in firebase projects, **easy-firebase-react** makes it easier for us to manage users, firestore database, and upload files to storage.
**This library is not finished but you can test it for now :)**

### Content list

- Installation
- Project Settings
- Usage
- Manage Errros
- Firebase Authentication
- Firebase Firestore
- Firebase Storage

## Installation

`npm install easy-firebase-react firebase`
only install firebase if you dont have.

## Configurations

create a config file like this.. and only need set your credentials.

```javascript
import EasyFirebase from "easy-firebase-react"; //to initialize your app firebase
import { Auth, Firestore, Storage } from "easy-firebase-react/functions"; //classes with functions

//your credentials app
const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "",
  authDomain: "",
  projectId: "",
  storageBucket: "",
  messagingSenderId: "",
  appId: "",
};

//pass your credentials to EasyFirebase and this return your app instance
const { app } = EasyFirebase(firebaseConfig);

//create new instance of classes
const auth = new Auth(app);
const firestore = new Firestore(app);
const storage = new Storage(app);

//export your instances
export { auth, firestore, storage };
```

## Usage

1. import the instances created in your configuration

`import { auth, firestore, storage } from 'YOUR_CONFIG_FILE'`

2. use the functions avalibles with async/await...

```javascript
const newDoc = await firestore.addDoc("products", {
  name: "tv smart 3",
  price: 500,
});
//Manage Errors
if (newDoc.error) {
  console.log(`error adding doc: ${newDoc.message}`);
} else {
  console.log("doc added: ", newDoc);
}
```

# Manage Errors

- all functions of this library return firebase errors or custom errors
- for better information you can log the response to the console

```javascript
const res = await auth.loginGithub();

//manage errors
if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
console.log(res);
```

# Firebase Authentication

## Create Account With Email

1. Remenber activate the email auth options in your firebase console

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onSubmit = async () => {
  const res = await auth.createAccount(
    "email@email.com",
    "pass1234",
    "NameUser" //name user is optional
  );
  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

## Login With Email Account

1. Remenber activate the email auth options in your firebase console

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onSubmit = async () => {
  const res = await auth.loginAccount("email@email.com", "pass1234");
  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

## Login With Google Provider

1. Remenber activate the google auth options in your firebase console

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onClickButton = async () => {
  const res = await auth.loginGoogle();

  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

## Login With Github Provider

1. Remenber activate the github auth options in your firebase console and set config needs in github. Read more in [firebase docs auth with github](https://firebase.google.com/docs/auth/web/github-auth)

2. make async function like this..

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

const onClickButton = async () => {
  const res = await auth.loginGithub();

  //manage errors
  if (res.error) return alert(res.message);
  if (!res.error) return alert(res.message);
};
```

# Manage User Authenticated

you can manage the current user auth with a custom hook from EasyFirebase lib

## Example

```javascript
import { useAuth } from 'easy-firebase-react/hooks';

const HomeView = () => {

  const user = useAuth();

  return(
    <div>
      {
        user ? (<p>{user.displayName}</p>) : (<p>user not auth<p/>)
      }
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Close Session

to close a session you can use the next function

```javascript
import { auth } from "YOUR_CONFIG_FILE";

auth.closeSession();
```

# Firebase Firestore

## Add new document

- you can create a new document with the 'addDoc' function
- the id is automatically generated but if you need a custom id you can pass it as the third parameter

```javascript
const newDoc = await firestore.addDoc("products", {
  name: "tv smart 3",
  price: 500,
  active: true,
});
//Manage Errors
if (newDoc.error) {
  console.log(`error adding doc: ${newDoc.message}`);
} else {
  console.log("doc added: ", newDoc);
}
```

## Update or Replace existend document

- You can update a document with the 'updateDoc' function
- by default it does a data merge, but you can replace the entire document by passing the value of false in the fourth parameter

```javascript
const update = await firestore.updateDoc("products", "a7BTAeEnYbbXi2vCjoql", {
  price: 600,
});
console.log(update);
```

## Delete existend document

- you can delete a document passing it the collection and the id of the document

```javascript
const docDelete = await firestore.deleteDoc("products", "89btftioa87SQjEIswjP");
console.log(docDelete);
```

## Add data in array

- adds data to an array, it can be anything, a string, object, array, etc.
- if the array does not exist yet it will create it and add the data

```javascript
const addA = await firestore.addInArray(
  "products", //collection
  "8RvHtf437D4clakqBtNO", //idDoc
  "categories", //array field
  "category1" // data to add
);
console.log(addA);
```

## Delete data in array

- to delete data from an array you have to pass the complete data so that it is deleted correctly

```javascript
const delA = await firestore.deleteInArray(
  "products", //collection
  "8RvHtf437D4clakqBtNO", //docId
  "categories", //Array field
  { //All data of document to delete
    description: "desc of category",
    name: "category one",
  }
);
console.log(addA);
```
